:bug: Update outdated export link for InfluxDB (#2587)
platformsh/platformsh-docs: docs/src/add-services/influxdb.md

{{% endpoint-description type="influxdb" /%}}

{{< codetabs >}}

---
title=PHP
file=static/files/fetch/examples/php/influxdb
highlight=php
---

> {{< /codetabs >}}

Reviewer: :clipboard: This shouldn't be in codetabs if it's only one language. But since an example is also available for Node.js, that should be aded.

## Exporting data

> To export your data from InfluxDB:

Reviewer: :clipboard: 
```suggestion
To export your data from InfluxDB, follow these steps:
```

> 1. Install the [influx-cli](https://docs.influxdata.com/influxdb/cloud/tools/influx-cli/).

Reviewer: :clipboard: 
```suggestion
1. Install the [`influx` CLI](https://docs.influxdata.com/influxdb/cloud/tools/influx-cli/).
```

> 2. Gain access to the server from your local machine with the [Platform.sh CLI](../administration/cli/_index.md):

Reviewer: :hammer_and_wrench: It's not really clear what `the server` is in this case.
```suggestion
2. Connect to your InfluxDB service with the [Platform.sh CLI](../administration/cli/_index.md):
```

	```bash

> 	platform tunnel:open

Reviewer: :question: Why not use a single one? Why open all services?

Author: Because I thought it adds more complexity to add an extra flag when the default is okey too.

	```

	That command opens an SSH tunnel to all services on your current environment and produces output like:

	```bash

> 	SSH tunnel opened on port {{<variable "PORT" >}} to relationship: influxtimedb

Reviewer: :clipboard: This is _example output_, not something they will be copying and pasting. Once again, it's not appropriate for variables. Also to update the relationship to what's on this page.
```suggestion
   SSH tunnel opened on port 30000 to relationship: influxdb
```

	```

> 3. Get the username and password [for your service](../development/variables/use-variables.md#access-variables-in-a-shell) with `echo $PLATFORM_RELATIONSHIPS | base64 --decode`.

Reviewer: :lady_beetle: The link text here is rather confusing compared to what the link actually goes to.

Reviewer: :hammer_and_wrench: 
```suggestion
3. Get the username and password for your service from an [environment variable](../development/variables/use-variables.md#access-variables-in-a-shell)
by running `echo $PLATFORM_RELATIONSHIPS | base64 --decode`.
```

Reviewer: :hammer_and_wrench This command doesn't work without other steps in the middle (such as running `export PLATFORM_RELATIONSHIPS="$(platform tunnel:info --encode)"`). It seems much easier to use the CLI, since that's already a prerequisite.
````suggestion
3.  Get the username and password from the [relationship](#relationship) by running the following command:

    ```bash
    platform relationships -P {{<variable "RELATIONSHIP_NAME" >}}
    ```

````

> 4. Generate an [API token](https://docs.influxdata.com/influxdb/cloud/security/tokens/create-token/).

Reviewer: The issue of the automatically generated token not working is ***completely*** different than whether it's necessary to add extra steps to this doc. The point is, we link to steps that tell users to generate a token and set it up to *not* use in a CLI command, so we should take advantage of that.

## Exporting data

To export your data from InfluxDB, follow these steps:

1. Install and set up the [`influx` CLI](https://docs.influxdata.com/influxdb/cloud/tools/influx-cli/).
2. Connect to your InfluxDB service with the [Platform.sh CLI](../administration/cli/_index.md):

   ```bash

>    platform tunnel:open --host {{<variable "RELATIONSHIP_NAME" >}}

Reviewer: :hammer_and_wrench: `host` is a deprecated flag. We shouldn't be recommending it. I would still recommend using `tunnel:single` as more focused on the task at hand. (Plus not requiring extra PHP extensions.)

```suggestion
   platform tunnel:single --relationship {{<variable "RELATIONSHIP_NAME" >}}
```

Reviewer: Or if you don't want to put the flag in, it's fine to let them choose through the CLI:
```suggestion
   platform tunnel:single
```

   ```

>    That command opens an SSH tunnel to all services on your current environment and produces output like:

Reviewer: :hammer_and_wrench: 
```suggestion
   This opens an SSH tunnel to your InfluxDB service on your current environment and produces output like the following:
```

   ```bash

>    SSH tunnel opened to influxtimedb at: http://admin:<HASH>@127.0.0.1:30000

Reviewer: :hammer_and_wrench: Not sure what the `<HASH>` was intended to represent, but this example seems clearer and comes from the one we have running.
```suggestion
   SSH tunnel opened to influxdb at: http://127.0.0.1:30000
```

   ```

3. Get the username and password [for your service](../development/variables/use-variables.md#access-variables-in-a-shell) with `echo $PLATFORM_RELATIONSHIPS | base64 --decode`.

> 4. Run InfluxDB's CLI export command and [adapt it as desired](https://docs.influxdata.com/influxdb/v2.3/reference/cli/influx/backup/).

Reviewer: :pick: The link text should reflect the content of the link, which is about the command.

```suggestion
4.  Adapt and run [InfluxDB's CLI export command](https://docs.influxdata.com/influxdb/v2.3/reference/cli/influx/backup/).
```

>    ``` bash
>    influx backup --host http://localhost:30000
>    ```

Reviewer: :clipboard: 
````suggestion
    ``` bash
    influx backup --host {{< variable "URL_FROM_STEP_2" >}}
    ```
````

## Exporting data

> InfluxDB includes its own [export mechanism](https://docs.influxdata.com/influxdb/v2.3/reference/cli/influxd/inspect/).

Author: Yeah, [we don't seem to support 2.3 yet](https://docs.platform.sh/add-services/influxdb.html), hence the reference to a slightly less outdated page.
Good call, indeed further changes are needed on the page! 👀
